Important: this is my raw learning process when I did these experiments. For a more clear and formal explanation of the experiments and results, head to [README](/01-what-is-networking/README.md).

In the first experiment, [ping](/01-what-is-networking/captures/ping.pcap), I pinged google's IP Address 8.8.8.8. In wireshark, I can clearly see that the protocol of the packets are ICMP, and there's a series of requests and reply. That's my computer in my private network connecting to a different computer far away through the internet. It's kind of cool. I also noticed that each ping has an identifier (to group packets into the same session) and a sequence number (to match each request with its reply). This helped me understand how my computer knows which replies belong to which request.

In the second experiment, [client-server](/01-what-is-networking/captures/client-server.pcap), I made two python files in my computer: [client](/01-what-is-networking/scripts/client.py) and [server](/01-what-is-networking/scripts/server.py). I used sockets to have them communicate with each other. In the pcap file on wireshark, I can clearly see the TCP three way handshake happening, and that's very cool. First the client sends a SYN message to the server, initiating a connection request like saying hi. Then the server replies with SYN and ACK, an acknowledgement that it heard the client. Then the client acknowledges the server's acknowledgement, which shows how careful this protocol is. Then the client sends a PSH message, which reads "hello". A series of acknowledgements later, the server also sends a PSH message, saying "world". Then they acknowledge for a bit, then send the FIN message to end the connection. It's very interesting to me how careful the TCP protocol is to send data. Another thing, the client is sending from a random port, and this is called an ephemereal port. This makes sense, because it allows my computer to hold simultaneous connections.

In the third experiment, [tracert](/01-what-is-networking/captures/tracert.pcap), seeing the ICMP packets exceed their TTL to show me the route of IP addresses that I go through makes me understand how the `tracert` command works. It also shows me that packets don't immediately go to the destination, they go to mulitple places first, starting from my local network, to my ISP, to somewhere on the internet, all the way to google. It's very interesting.